---
layout: page
title: Live Video Analytics
description: ""
# img: assets/img/tr.png
importance: 997
category: Projects
# redirect: https://traffic-refinery.github.io
tags: [VideoJam, OVIDA, SEC]
---

We tackle the challenge of executing diverse machine learning pipelines on
heterogeneous computing resources at the network edge. A compelling example of
this challenge is live video analytics, which has emerged as a key network
application of the future, driven by advances in neural network-based video
processing and the rise of edge computing. Existing solutions, however,
predominantly target fixed cameras, whose video streams follow a predictable
path through a hierarchical network of clusters to execute vision pipelines.
With the growing accessibility and widespread adoption of mobile cameras and
devices, it is increasingly essential to incorporate these dynamic video feeds
into analytics architectures. Our work focuses on integrating mobile devices
into analytics platforms by developing innovative system solutions that address
the unique and dynamic nature of these devices.

## VideoJam: Self-Balancing Architecture for Live Video Analytics

*Abstract.* Edge-based live video analytics are a promising approach to reduce
bandwidth overheads caused by the transmission of raw video streams to the
cloud. However, the limited resources available on edge devices make it
challenging to successfully process video streams in real-time. This gets
further exacerbated when attempting to process video streams from mobile
cameras. While mobile cameras are a desirable source of information, thanks to
them being in the right place at the right time, they are inherently dynamic and
unpredictable. To address these challenges, we propose VideoJam, a decentralized
load balancing solution for live video analytics. VideoJam uses a set of load
balancers to balance incoming video traffic across replicas without the need of
centralized coordination. Exploiting the inherent load dynamicity generated by
different video sources, VideoJam predicts the incoming load for each processing
component and offloads excessive traffic to less- loaded neighbors. Further,
VideoJam operates independently of deployed configurations and cameras present
in the system, dynamically adapting to handle load changes and balance video
traffic across available resources. Our evaluation shows that VideoJam can adapt
to different mixes of mobile and fixed cameras, as well as quickly adapting to
configuration changes occurring at runtime. Compared to state-of-the-art
solutions, VideoJam achieves 2.91x lower response time, while reducing video
data loss by more than 4.64x and generating lower bandwidth overheads.

### Resources
The research paper was accepted to ACM/IEEE SEC 2024.

Source code: [https://github.com/ENSL-NS/VideoJam](https://github.com/ENSL-NS/VideoJam)

### Citation bibtex
```
@article{faye2024videojam,
  title={VideoJam: Self-Balancing Architecture for Live Video Analytics},
  author={Faye, Youssouph and Faticanti, Francescomaria and Jain, Shubham and Bronzino, Francesco},
  journal={IEEE/ACM Symposium on Edge Computing},
  year={2024}
}
```

## OVIDA: Orchestrator for Video Analytics on Disaggregated Architecture

*Abstract.* Millions of video cameras are deployed globally across major cities
for learning-based video analytic (VA) applications, such as object detection.
Video streams from the cameras are either sent over the wide-area network to be
processed by the cloud or are (at least partially) processed in a local edge
workstation, incurring significant latency and elevated financial costs. In this
paper, to minimize reliance on the cloud and overcome the unavailability of
high-compute workstations on edge, we investigate the use of heterogeneous and
distributed embedded devices as edge nodes shared by multiple cameras to fully
serve the video processing needs of a VA application (without requiring cloud
support). We present OVIDA, an edge-only orchestrator to deploy VA
application(s) on a distributed edge environment to maximize accuracy. Given the
resource-constrained nature of edge nodes, OVIDA disaggregates the VA
application pipeline into multiple modules. OVIDA’s core functionality and
contributions are: (i) optimizing the placement and replication of the VA
application modules across the edge nodes to maximize the throughput, and in
turn, accuracy; and (ii) an adaptive model selection algorithm for VA modules
based on accuracy-throughput trade-off to maximize accuracy in response to
varying load conditions. To further improve performance, OVIDA employs a
central-queue– based design (instead of the usual push-based design), which also
obviates the need for complex load balancing algorithms. We implement OVIDA on
top of Kubernetes and evaluate its performance for three VA applications,
supported over a heterogeneous edge cluster under varying network conditions.
When compared against several baselines in our evaluation, we achieve throughput
and accuracy gains of at least 51% and 28%.

### Resources
The research paper was accepted to ACM/IEEE SEC 2024.

### Citation bibtex
```
@article{singh2024ovida,
  title={OVIDA: Orchestrator for Video Analytics on Disaggregated Architecture},
  author={Singh, Manavjeet and Rachuri, Sri Pramodh and Cao, Bryan Bo and Sharma, Abhinav and Bhumireddy, Venkata and Bronzino, Francesco and Das, Samir R. and Gandhi, Anshul and Jain, Shubham},
  journal={IEEE/ACM Symposium on Edge Computing},
  year={2024}
}
```

## Optimal Flow Admission Control in Edge Computing via Safe Reinforcement Learning

*Abstract.* With the uptake of intelligent data-driven applications, edge
computing infrastructures necessitate a new generation of admission control
algorithms to maximize system performance under limited and highly heterogeneous
resources. In this paper, we study how to optimally select information flows
which belong to different classes and dispatch them to multiple edge servers
where applications perform flow analytic tasks. The optimal policy is obtained
via the theory of constrained Markov decision processes (CMDP) to take into
account the demand of each edge application for specific classes of flows, the
constraints on computing capacity of edge servers and the constraints on access
network capacity. We develop DRCPO, a specialized primal-dual Safe Reinforcement
Learning (SRL) method which solves the resulting optimal admission control
problem by reward decomposition. DRCPO operates optimal decentralized control
and mitigates effectively state-space explosion while preserving optimality.
Compared to existing Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL) solutions, extensive
results show that it achieves 15% higher reward on a wide variety of
environments, while requiring on average only 50% learning episodes to converge.
Finally, we further improve the system performance by matching DRCPO with
load-balancing in order to dispatch optimally information flows to the available
edge servers.

### Resources
The research paper was accepted to WiOpt 2024.

You can access the source code of our RL models at this address: [https://github.com/Andrea-Fox/DecomposedRCPO](https://github.com/Andrea-Fox/DecomposedRCPO)

### Citation bibtex
```
@inproceedings{fox2024optimal,
  title={Optimal Flow Admission Control in Edge Computing via Safe Reinforcement Learning},
  author={Fox, Andrea and De Pellegrini, Francesco and Faticanti, Francescomaria and Altman, Eitan and Bronzino, Francesco},
  booktitle={International Symposium on Modeling and Optimization in Mobile, Ad hoc, and Wireless Networks},
  year={2024}
}
```